.\" nghttpx manual page
.TH nghttpx "1" "January 2014" "nghttpx" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nghttpx \- HTTP 2.0 experimental proxy
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBnghttpx\fP [\fIOPTIONS\fP...] [\fIPRIVATE_KEY\fP \fICERT\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Experimental HTTP 2.0 reverse proxy.
.LP
The default mode is to accept HTTP/2.0, SPDY (if compiled in) and
HTTP/1.1 over SSL/TLS. If \fB\-\-frontend\-no\-tls\fR is used, accept
HTTP/2.0 and HTTP/1.1. The incoming HTTP/1.1 connection can be
upgraded to HTTP/2.0 through HTTP Upgrade.  The protocol to the
backend is HTTP/1.1.
.SH "Positional arguments"
.TP
\fIPRIVATE_KEY\fP
Set path to server's private key. Required
unless either \fB\-p\fR or \fB\-\-client\fR is specified.
.TP
\fICERT\fP
Set path to server's certificate. Required
unless either \fB\-p\fR or \fB\-\-client\fR is specified.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-backend=\fR<HOST,PORT>
Set backend host and port.
Default: '127.0.0.1,80'
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-frontend=\fR<HOST,PORT>
Set frontend host and port.
Default: '0.0.0.0,3000'
.TP
\fB\-\-backlog=\fR<NUM>
Set listen backlog size.
Default: 256
.TP
\fB\-\-backend\-ipv4\fR
Resolve backend hostname to IPv4 address
only.
.TP
\fB\-\-backend\-ipv6\fR
Resolve backend hostname to IPv6 address
only.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-workers=\fR<CORES>
Set the number of worker threads.
Default: 1
.TP
\fB\-\-read\-rate=\fR<RATE> Set maximum average read rate on frontend
connection. Setting 0 to this option means
read rate is unlimited.
Default: 1048576
.TP
\fB\-\-read\-burst=\fR<SIZE>
Set maximum read burst size on frontend
connection. Setting 0 to this option means
read burst size is unlimited.
Default: 4194304
.TP
\fB\-\-write\-rate=\fR<RATE>
Set maximum average write rate on frontend
connection. Setting 0 to this option means
write rate is unlimited.
Default: 0
.TP
\fB\-\-write\-burst=\fR<SIZE>
Set maximum write burst size on frontend
connection. Setting 0 to this option means
write burst size is unlimited.
Default: 0
.TP
\fB\-\-frontend\-http2\-read\-timeout=\fR<SEC>
Specify read timeout for HTTP/2.0 and SPDY frontend
connection. Default: 180
.TP
\fB\-\-frontend\-read\-timeout=\fR<SEC>
Specify read timeout for HTTP/1.1 frontend
connection. Default: 180
.TP
\fB\-\-frontend\-write\-timeout=\fR<SEC>
Specify write timeout for all frontends.
connection. Default: 60
.TP
\fB\-\-backend\-read\-timeout=\fR<SEC>
Specify read timeout for backend connection.
Default: 900
.TP
\fB\-\-backend\-write\-timeout=\fR<SEC>
Specify write timeout for backend
connection. Default: 60
.TP
\fB\-\-backend\-keep\-alive\-timeout=\fR<SEC>
Specify keep\-alive timeout for backend
connection. Default: 60
.TP
\fB\-\-backend\-http\-proxy\-uri=\fR<URI>
Specify proxy URI in the form
http://[<USER>:<PASS>@]<PROXY>:<PORT>. If
a proxy requires authentication, specify
<USER> and <PASS>. Note that they must be
properly percent\-encoded. This proxy is used
when the backend connection is HTTP/2.0. First,
make a CONNECT request to the proxy and
it connects to the backend on behalf of
nghttpx. This forms tunnel. After that, nghttpx
performs SSL/TLS handshake with the
downstream through the tunnel. The timeouts
when connecting and making CONNECT request
can be specified by \fB\-\-backend\-read\-timeout\fR
and \fB\-\-backend\-write\-timeout\fR options.
.TP
\fB\-\-ciphers=\fR<SUITE>
Set allowed cipher list. The format of the
string is described in OpenSSL ciphers(1).
If this option is used, \fB\-\-honor\-cipher\-order\fR
is implicitly enabled.
.TP
\fB\-\-honor\-cipher\-order\fR
Honor server cipher order, giving the
ability to mitigate BEAST attacks.
.TP
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-insecure\fR
When used with \fB\-p\fR or \fB\-\-client\fR, don't verify
backend server's certificate.
.TP
\fB\-\-cacert=\fR<PATH>
When used with \fB\-p\fR or \fB\-\-client\fR, set path to
trusted CA certificate file.
The file must be in PEM format. It can
contain multiple certificates. If the
linked OpenSSL is configured to load system
wide certificates, they are loaded
at startup regardless of this option.
.TP
\fB\-\-private\-key\-passwd\-file=\fR<FILEPATH>
Path to file that contains password for the
server's private key. If none is given and
the private key is password protected it'll
be requested interactively.
.TP
\fB\-\-subcert=\fR<KEYPATH>:<CERTPATH>
Specify additional certificate and private
key file. nghttpx will choose certificates
based on the hostname indicated by client
using TLS SNI extension. This option can be
used multiple times.
.TP
\fB\-\-backend\-tls\-sni\-field=\fR<HOST>
Explicitly set the content of the TLS SNI
extension.  This will default to the backend
HOST name.
.TP
\fB\-\-dh\-param\-file=\fR<PATH>
Path to file that contains DH parameters in
PEM format. Without this option, DHE cipher
suites are not available.
.TP
\fB\-\-npn\-list=\fR<LIST>
Comma delimited list of NPN protocol sorted
in the order of preference. That means
most desirable protocol comes first.
The parameter must be delimited by a single
comma only and any white spaces are treated
as a part of protocol string.
Default: HTTP\-draft\-07/2.0,http/1.1
.TP
\fB\-\-verify\-client\fR
Require and verify client certificate.
.TP
\fB\-\-verify\-client\-cacert=\fR<PATH>
Path to file that contains CA certificates
to verify client certificate.
The file must be in PEM format. It can
contain multiple certificates.
.TP
\fB\-\-client\-private\-key\-file=\fR<PATH>
Path to file that contains client private
key used in backend client authentication.
.TP
\fB\-\-client\-cert\-file=\fR<PATH>
Path to file that contains client
certificate used in backend client
authentication.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-http2\-max\-concurrent\-streams=\fR<NUM>
Set the maximum number of the concurrent
streams in one HTTP/2.0 and SPDY session.
Default: 100
.TP
\fB\-\-frontend\-http2\-window\-bits=\fR<N>
Sets the initial window size of HTTP/2.0 and SPDY
frontend connection to 2**<N>\-1.
Default: 16
.TP
\fB\-\-frontend\-no\-tls\fR
Disable SSL/TLS on frontend connections.
.TP
\fB\-\-backend\-http2\-window\-bits=\fR<N>
Sets the initial window size of HTTP/2.0 and SPDY
backend connection to 2**<N>\-1.
Default: 16
.TP
\fB\-\-backend\-no\-tls\fR
Disable SSL/TLS on backend connections.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-http2\-proxy\fR
Like default mode, but enable secure proxy mode.
.TP
\fB\-\-http2\-bridge\fR
Like default mode, but communicate with the
backend in HTTP/2.0 over SSL/TLS. Thus the
incoming all connections are converted
to HTTP/2.0 connection and relayed to
the backend. See \fB\-\-backend\-http\-proxy\-uri\fR
option if you are behind the proxy and want
to connect to the outside HTTP/2.0 proxy.
.TP
\fB\-\-client\fR
Accept HTTP/2.0 and HTTP/1.1 without SSL/TLS.
The incoming HTTP/1.1 connection can be
upgraded to HTTP/2.0 connection through
HTTP Upgrade.
The protocol to the backend is HTTP/2.0.
To use nghttpx as a forward proxy, use \fB\-p\fR
option instead.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-client\-proxy\fR Like \fB\-\-client\fR option, but it also requires
the request path from frontend must be
an absolute URI, suitable for use as a
forward proxy.
.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-log\-level=\fR<LEVEL>
Set the severity level of log output.
INFO, WARNING, ERROR and FATAL.
Default: WARNING
.TP
\fB\-\-accesslog\fR
Print simple accesslog to stderr.
.TP
\fB\-\-syslog\fR
Send log messages to syslog.
.TP
\fB\-\-syslog\-facility=\fR<FACILITY>
Set syslog facility.
Default: daemon
.TP
\fB\-\-add\-x\-forwarded\-for\fR
Append X\-Forwarded\-For header field to the
downstream request.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-via\fR
Don't append to Via header field. If Via
header field is received, it is left
unaltered.
.TP
\fB\-D\fR, \fB\-\-daemon\fR
Run in a background. If \fB\-D\fR is used, the
current working directory is changed to '/'.
.TP
\fB\-\-pid\-file=\fR<PATH>
Set path to save PID of this program.
.TP
\fB\-\-user=\fR<USER>
Run this program as USER. This option is
intended to be used to drop root privileges.
.TP
\fB\-\-conf=\fR<PATH>
Load configuration from PATH.
Default: \fI/etc/nghttpx/nghttpx.conf\fP
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version and exit.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print this help and exit.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
nghttp(1), nghttpd(1)
