.\" nghttp2 manual page
.TH nghttp2 "1" "January 2014" "nghttp2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nghttp2 \- HTTP2 experimental client
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBnghttp\fP [\fIOPTIONS\fP] \fIURI\fP...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Experimental client for HTTP 2.0.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Print debug information such as reception/
transmission of frames and name/value pairs.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-null\-out\fR
Discard downloaded data.
.TP
\fB\-O\fR, \fB\-\-remote\-name\fR
Save download data in the current directory.
The filename is dereived from URI. If URI
ends with '/', 'index.html' is used as a
filename. Not implemented yet.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-timeout=\fR<N>
Timeout each request after <N> seconds.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-window\-bits=\fR<N>
Sets the stream level initial window size
to 2**<N>\-1.
.TP
\fB\-W\fR, \fB\-\-connection\-window\-bits=\fR<N>
Sets the connection level initial window
size to 2**<N>\-1.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-get\-assets\fR
Download assets such as stylesheets, images
and script files linked from the downloaded
resource. Only links whose origins are the
same with the linking resource will be
downloaded.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-stat\fR
Print statistics.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-header\fR
Add a header to the requests.
.TP
\fB\-\-cert=\fR<CERT>
Use the specified client certificate file.
The file must be in PEM format.
.TP
\fB\-\-key=\fR<KEY>
Use the client private key file. The file
must be in PEM format.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-data=\fR<FILE>
Post FILE to server. If \- is given, data
will be read from stdin.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-multiply=\fR<N> Request each URI <N> times. By default, same
URI is not requested twice. This option
disables it too.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-no\-flow\-control\fR
Disables connection and stream level flow
controls.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-upgrade\fR
Perform HTTP Upgrade for HTTP/2.0. This
option is ignored if the request URI has
https scheme.
If \fB\-d\fR is used, the HTTP upgrade request is
performed with OPTIONS method.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-pri=\fR<PRIORITY>
Sets stream priority. Default: 1073741824
.TP
\fB\-M\fR, \fB\-\-peer\-max\-concurrent\-streams=\fR<N>
Use <N> as SETTINGS_MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS
value of remote endpoint as if it is
received in SETTINGS frame. The default
is large enough as it is seen as unlimited.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-header\-table\-size=\fR<N>
Specify decoder header table size.
.TP
\fB\-\-color\fR
Force colored log output.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
nghttpd(1), nghttpx(1)
